Weather Observation Station 5


Query the two cities in STATION with the shortest and longest CITY names,
as well as their respective lengths (i.e.: number of characters in the name). 
If there is more than one smallest or largest city, choose the one that comes first when ordered alphabetically.
The STATION table is described as follows:


first find all the city names
then find the length of the cities 
order by the length of the cities limit one and then go in asc and then desc

select distinct(city), length(city) from station limit 1;
select distinct(city), length(city) from station order by length(city) desc limit 1;


Weather Observation Station 6

Query the list of CITY names starting with vowels (i.e., a, e, i, o, or u) from STATION. Your result cannot contain duplicates.

The PADS

Generate the following two result sets:

Query an alphabetically ordered list of all names in OCCUPATIONS, immediately followed by the first letter of each profession as a parenthetical (i.e.: enclosed in parentheses). For example: AnActorName(A), ADoctorName(D), AProfessorName(P), and ASingerName(S).
Query the number of ocurrences of each occupation in OCCUPATIONS. Sort the occurrences in ascending order, and output them in the following format:

There are a total of [occupation_count] [occupation]s.
where [occupation_count] is the number of occurrences of an occupation in OCCUPATIONS and [occupation] is the lowercase occupation name. If more than one Occupation has the same [occupation_count], they should be ordered alphabetically.

Note: There will be at least two entries in the table for each type of occupation.

Query

SELECT CONCAT(Name, "(", LEFT(Occupation, 1), ")")
FROM Occupations
ORDER BY Name ASC;

SELECT CONCAT("There are a total of ", COUNT(*), " ",  LOWER(Occupation), "s.") FROM Occupations GROUP BY Occupation ORDER BY COUNT(*) ASC, Occupation ASC;


How its done:

select 
concat name with the first letter of that persons occupation and its in accending order

then select concat "There are a total of" + count of all people in that occupation and add a lower case s to make doctors ect from occupation its ordered by count in accending order


